---
title: How weâ€™re using AI to combat the latest scams
author: Jasika Bawa and Phiroze Parakh
date: 2025-05-08
source-url: https://blog.google/technology/safety-security/how-were-using-ai-to-combat-the-latest-scams/
source-blog: The Keyword

For more than a decade Google has used advancements in AI to protect you from
online scams where malicious actors deceive users to gain access to money,
personal information, or both. Today, we\'re releasing a new report on how we
fight scams in Search, and sharing the new ways we\'re using AI to keep you safe
across Search, Chrome and Android.

## Stopping scams in Search with AI-powered defenses

In Search, AI helps us detect and block hundreds of millions of scammy results
every day. Our [Fighting Scams in Search
report](https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-uniblog-publish-prod/documents/Search-Scam-Report-0508.pdf)
showcases how the investments we've made in our AI-powered scam detection
systems --- along with improvements to our classifiers --- have enabled us to
catch 20-times the number of scammy pages. These improvements help ensure the
results you get are legitimate, and protect you from harmful sites trying to
steal your sensitive data.

Advancements in AI have bolstered our scam-fighting technologies --- enabling us
to analyze vast quantities of text on the web, identify coordinated scam
campaigns and detect emerging threats --- staying one step ahead to keep you
safe on Search. For example, we've observed a significant increase in bad actors
on the web impersonating airline customer service providers and scamming people
in need of help. We've already reduced these scams by more than 80% in Search,
greatly reducing the risk that you call a scammy phone number.

## Supercharging Safe Browsing in Chrome with Gemini Nano

The [Enhanced Protection
mode](https://blog.google/products/chrome/google-chrome-safe-browsing-one-billion-users/)
of Safe Browsing on Chrome is our browser's highest level of protection, and
keeps users twice as safe from phishing and other scams versus our Standard
Protection mode.

We're [now using Gemini
Nano](https://security.googleblog.com/2025/05/using-ai-to-stop-tech-support-scams-in.html),
our on-device large language model (LLM) on desktop, to provide Enhanced
Protection users with an additional layer of defense against online scams. The
on-device approach provides instant insight on risky websites and allows us to
offer protection, even against scams that haven\'t been seen before. Gemini
Nano\'s LLM is perfect for this use because of its ability to distill the
varied, complex nature of websites, helping us adapt to new scam tactics more
quickly.

We\'re already using this new AI-powered approach to protect users from remote
tech support scams, one of the biggest online threats facing users today. Our
goal is to expand this protection to Android devices and even more types of
scams in the future.

## Fighting scams, spam and unwanted notifications

Sometimes the risk from scammy sites can extend beyond the site itself. If
you\'ve enabled notifications from websites, malicious sites can try to scam you
through a barrage of notifications. To help you stay ahead of malicious, spammy
or misleading notifications, we\'re launching [new AI-powered warnings for
Chrome on
Android](https://blog.chromium.org/2025/05/fighting-unwanted-notifications-with.html).

When Chrome's on-device machine learning model flags a notification, you'll
receive a warning with the option to either unsubscribe or view the content that
was blocked. And if you decide the warning was shown incorrectly, you can choose
to allow future notifications from that website.

## Safeguarding you from sophisticated call and messaging scams {#safeguarding-you-from-sophisticated-call-and-messaging-scams block-key="ccm9r"}

Scams are commonly being initiated through phone calls and text messages that
appear harmless at first, but then evolve into dangerous situations. We recently
launched on-device AI-powered [Scam Detection in Google Messages and Phone by
Google](https://security.googleblog.com/2025/03/new-ai-powered-scam-detection-features.html)
to protect Android users from these types of sophisticated scams.

No one likes being tricked, but history has shown us that scammers are
constantly evolving their tactics and unlikely to give up anytime soon. That's
why we're committed to making their job as hard as possible through using
Google's latest AI advancements to raise the bar for safety across all of our
products.

